All right in this lecture we're going to keep moving forward with learning about how to work with maps
particularly we're going to dive into how we can work with these different annotations that we have
for example or I guess markers what they're called.
You know we did a little bit of customization here saying I like Ossy for eyes of all we're going to
learn how to put something in a new location how we can find the location of things also how we can
change our maps so we can for instance show a satellite image rather than just sort of this cartoon
version of things that we have here.
So first let's go and talk about how we can find a new location.
So there's a couple of ways that you can do this really googling just the best.
We just need to find the latitude and longitude of a location if we go back to our code here.
Right.
So apparently Sidneys at negative 34 and positive 151 if we wanted to find it for some other location
we'd maybe open up a new tab and let's find like Mt. Everest and we'll just go ahead and search that
I'm sure we could find it in Google Maps.
So let's see the oh I thought it would have just automatically taken us there.
Oh look here we go.
Maybe this is the Google maps link that we're looking for.
Yeah.
OK.
So it's showing us Google or Mt. Everest here on the map.
And usually in the URL you can just find the latitude in the longitude just right there ready to go
you can just go ahead and copy that.
Also if you right click on an annotation and Google map you can say what's here and it's going to provide
you some more information about the specific latitude and longitude.
So feel free to pick whatever location it is that you want.
I think just Mt. Everest would kind of be a cool one to have inside of our map here so I'm going to
go ahead back to the are L and I'm going to copy the latitude and longitude there.
At least I'm hoping to.
There we go.
Copy.
And once we take that I'm going to go back to our code and we'll now call this Everest and we'll paste
in this number and we're going to have to cut that second number and will replace 151 with that.
OK so this should now be pointing towards Everest and of course we don't want to say I like Aussie fries
for Mt. Everest will change us to say biggest in the world would be kind of fun.
I mean we could just say Everest but I think it's kind of cool to do a little bit of a different tack
there now.
You can see because we made this new lat long object which is the latitude and longitude right.
We need to update Everest here to replace Sydney.
And also here for the move camera which is you know zoom into a particular cation location we need to
update that.
So let's go ahead and run this on our device
and we'll wait for the sky to pop up.
Here we go and look at that.
Now we're showing Mt. Everest here and if we click on this biggest in the world it's showing that.
Isn't that cool.
So the way to do a little bit more customization with this is we can actually change what this marker
looks like.
So here after we've gone and we've set the title we can still do more on this.
So not the very last and predecease but the one just before that we're going to say Dot title excuse
me not title.
This is where we want to say that the fault or excuse me icon is what we're looking for.
OK so are you.
Icon.
Now this is looking for a bitmap descriptor.
So we are going to do a bit map the Scripter
goodness bitmap
descriptor factory.
There we go.
And then we're going to say Dot the fault marker.
And with this default marker we're going to pass in a number to this but rather than do just a straight
up number we're going to do capital bitmap factory description factory dot in on this you can see there's
all sorts of different colors here so you can pick which color you'd like I think would be kind of cool
to maybe see let's do like a yellow one for instance.
So this should now be putting a yellow marker into our app so let's go ahead and run that
you will get our app all ready to go here.
And when it opens up oh look at that.
All sudden it's a yellow marker instead of a red one so you can kind of you know change it and personalize
it and you can even with this rather than just doing the default marker you can actually add an actual
bitmap image if you want to with this bitmap descriptor factory.
But we won't dive into that for right now that's if you want to do something custom for example Oubre
when they have like the little card showing on the screen I imagine they're using their own custom icon
there.
Next thing I want to do is for example we have Mt. Everest here but it's like super zoomed out right
like we can see.
Oh ok it's like between Nepal and China but we could barely read Nepal I could be nice to actually be
zoomed in so we could see a little bit more of the mountains.
So in order to do that here on this move camera instead of doing this camera update factory new lat
longitude we're going to delete that and say camera update factory dot and instead we're going to pick
new lat longitude zoom just like this.
So we still have to provide latitude longitude which will provide us Everest but then also we get to
provide a number here.
So for example let's go ahead and throw in 15 and we'll run our app here you can choose a zoom between
one and twenty.
One is the most zoomed out 20 is the most sumed and so 15 is pretty zoomed in here.
And we'll see our app open up and maybe this is just way to zoom because I can't even see anything going
on here so maybe we'll zoom out a bit and you can start to see where we are so it's like OK maybe 15
is too much and see what one looks like we'll go ahead and run that.
Really it's just kind of playing around with this until you find what you think is the right zoom level
for your app.
So let's go ahead and see you know this is what we had before it was way too zoomed out.
So maybe the nice middle ground is somewhere like 10 or something like that like that will get us to
a good position.
Now the last thing that I want to cover here is how you can actually rather than just show sort of this
cartoony version of the world you can show satellite imagery.
So amazing that Google allows us to access this stuff with like one or two lines of code.
It really just blows me away.
But what we're going to do is we're going to take this map and with this we're going to say Dot set
and I want you to notice here for a second when you say set there is a lot of things that we can do
with this map.
It's pretty cool all the customization you can do.
But for right now we're going to say set map type and the type that we're looking for.
We're going to go ahead and type capital Google Map dot and there's all sorts of options here so satellite
would be straight up satellite.
I think normal is the one that shows kind of like the cartoon version terrain I think is what we saw
when we actually searched for the mountain in the web and a hybrid is sort of like a combination.
So I believe it's a combination of satellite and the cartoony stuff I don't think we get the train thing
but we'll see.
Let's go ahead and do hybrid and see what our app looks like now.
OK.
So we'll go ahead and run that.
And here comes the app.
And look at that.
We get this awesome image of Mt. Everest.
We've got some good names going so.
So cool how this works.
I'm just interested.
I want to see you know what for example the terrain looks like that might be a really cool you know
look for Everest particularly.
Let's go ahead and see what that looks like.
It's always fun in programming to kind of explore and just do different random things and yeah look
at that.
That was more of what we saw when we were looking there on the web.
Oh my goodness that is that is really cool.
OK.
So that is the basics of map.
You know a little bit more advanced stuff.
Now we're going to take a quick pause from hours to go learn how to get the user's location.
We'll be back to work with Google Maps soon enough.
But first we've got to figure out how we can figure out where a user is.